So for this particular exercise,
I want you to try practicing
configuring it from scratch.
Because I want you to get familiar with
the files that are critical to how
Vue Router works.
So as a general guidance,
use the Vue Router docs for reference.
I do not expect you to memorize all this.
And in fact, if you do a lot of copy and
paste from the sample code,
that's totally fine.
The goal is for
you to configure, get a feel for
how things are being,
basically configured out of raw directory.
And then other than that, you can move any
page components that you think is relevant
inside of your c'est-la-vue app.
And then after that we'll go ahead and
upgrade the App.vue to use router,
link and Router Vue, so
that everything renders correctly.
All right, welcome back, how was that
experience was a little bit harrowing
from like just all the configuration,
yeah, I completely understand.
So we're gonna do a run through just
again just to reiterate those steps and
then we'll share some tips and
tricks along the way.
So how this will work,
is we're gonna go over to c'est-la-vue,
let me go ahead and do cest-la-vue, great.
And then let's play around with this.
First thing first is we need
to install vue-router version,
oop not version r version four,
there we go.
Then what we're gonna do is we're
go ahead and configure our app.
Actually, let me go and run it as well,
so we can see the changes happening.
There we go, we're in it, okay?
So inside of our main.js app, we'll see
that we don't have a router right now, so
let's go ahead and fix that.
Import create router from, I usually
prefer when I have the autocomplete, but
I'm fairly confident in this one,
great, yep it's, right?
So we can do now is your const
app is your tree app and
then to make it more declarative
we'll do app.use(router),
which I need to define in a second,
and then app.mount.
Whoops, not a board controller.
And then we can just define our
router this way to create router.
We need to pass some options to it, so
the history on this is gonna
be create web history.
And again, the reason we're doing
this is because it does require
some server configurations in order to
get it to work on the normal HTML5 mode.
And so again, I'll leave it to you and
the dots depending on how
you're deploying it to do that.
But generally speaking,
what you're doing is you wanted
to redirect always to index HTML.
And again, plenty of that to support
probably wherever you're deploying it to.
In the meantime, WebHashHistory is what
we're gonna use because that is the most
universal one in terms of like
ensuring that things don't break.
And that is a function
that we need to run, and
then we need to be able
to find the routes.
And so
just to do this slightly differently, so
you can actually see what's
actually going on here.
So we can actually just define the routes
in here as well, it just I separate them
out into a file normally to make it
a little bit easier for management.
But again, to sort of help seal
the mental model a little bit more,
we're gonna do it this way.
So inside of the components we can see
what kind of pages do we already have?
Well, we already got three
actually aptly named pages, so and
create a folder for views and
let's just move them over.
Yep, okay, what is volere want to do?
It knows I wanna change it,
great, please do that for me.
I'm gonna move that as well.
I'm gonna trust it to do its thing, great.
All right, so now should have
a bunch of things moved over, but
there was a good question that
was asked earlier regarding.
It's nice for us to be explicit
about where the file path is.
But anyone who's worked on a large app
before will know that when it comes to
moving files,
that can be a bit of a pain when you're
moving up directories down directories.
And isn't there an easier way
to do this that it always
refers to the root directory?
That way, no matter where you, as long as
you're not doing a ton of nested folders,
it should make life a lot easier.
And so the secret to this actually is that
we actually do have that already built in.
And that's the Add symbol.
And so when you do the Add symbol,
what that does is it says please go to
the source folder, and
then start your file path from there.
And it's a really nice alias to have.
Now I'm telling you this and you might
be like, that sounds like black magic,
it's not.
If you look inside of our vite.config, in
fact this is a default to be honest, but
I'll just stick it to c'est-la-vue.
You'll see here that there actually is an
alias being defined from vite that says,
hey, this is the Add symbol,
and what I want you to do,
is automatically put the file URL
path to this ./source directory.
So what this means is you can
configure it to whatever you want.
It doesn't have to be app, but
that just happens to be the happens to be
a convention for a lot of applications.
So the Add symbol is there for you.
If you want to simplify the fact that
you don't have to navigate now, wait,
what folder am I in and what's going on?
Now that we have that,
let's keep on going.
So first thing first,
what kind of routes do we have?
Well, we're gonna wanna have a path for
the homepage.
And so what component is that?
We're gonna wanna do the component for
homepage, all right?
So here we have homepage, but we need to
import that, so we have homepage from,
let's use our handy alias
components/homepage.vue.
And that's super convenient because I
don't have to think where am I inside of
the directory?
It's super, super nice.
Great, there was a comment in
the audience that we moved it to vue,
it's not in component anymore.
And that's correct, so that would break,
but from the not having to think about
what directory I'm in, that is helpful.
There we go, look,
everything's showing up.
Okay, then we have a path here,
and let's just go ahead and
copy this block real quick,
just to make this a little bit easier.
And so we have login,
and then we have user.
Okay, UserPage, great.
And then we have UserPage, Login Page, and
this is how most of us would
probably do this part.
Log in is an L and then P or U for
UserPage, there we go save great.
And then what we can do now is go inside
of our app.vue, for c'est-la-vue.
And rather than having this all be managed
now with the current page and what not.
We can actually make this a lot simpler,
so
what we're gonna do here
is we're gonna go ahead.
And rather than put the component
here we're just going to do,
let me delete it first to show
that everything was working.
Okay, great it's gone,
now we're just gonna put
Router-Vue and just like that,
we have our pages.
>> Your routes are all
defined to go to homepage.
>> Yes, they are all defined
to go to homepage, good catch.
So we no longer need to track any of these
things because this is being now managed
at the router level.
So in case you've seen the duplicates,
you should not have duplicates.
There you go, don't need that component.
In fact, we don't need any of this because
all of this is doing is trying to do all
the programmatic things that the vue
router will do for us out of the gate.
So I can actually just
wipe out this whole thing.
And then we can no longer
reference any of these things,
let's comment that out real quick.
And then I think we're
good as far as that goes.
Now we need to actually have
the ability to switch it out.
So rather than use the eight tags,
we're gonna go ahead and
use our router link, sorry.
One, two router link, then we have
this right here, one, two router link.
Then we no longer have to worry about
the click, handling and preventing that.
So all of that can be deleted,
cleaned up, and
then instead href,
what we're gonna do, is to move.
And then just do two, and then we can go
ahead correctly then go login, user home.
Once you have that, there you go,
everything works just as you would expect.
Okay, so before I wrap up this exercise
though I think I do want to show you.
If we go back to the boilerplate
that we created with vue three and
this time adding the fact that we
have to do here's the router, okay?
You might notice something right here,
which is kind of interesting in that
you can actually write a function where
the component is in order to
dynamically import that vue.
And the reason this is a powerful
technique while relatively simple is that
It will then automatically generate
a separate build chunk that will
lazy load when it's being loaded.
Because the problem right now if we
look at how we're actually loading
the route right now in main.js.
And say I love you, we're importing
every single component that the app
might possibly need to route to and
if that app gets pretty large,
that's a lot to break apart.
So generally speaking, it's considered
best practice to go ahead and
just like we see inside of this router.js.
Whoop, not this one,
we're looking at this one, to go ahead and
just import the path directly.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
do that for us, so
that we can actually have
that as a record of that.
So again, rather than have these two
up here cuz we don't know when users
are going to log into that, we know
that home page needs to be imported.
So that cannot be dynamically imported,
but everything else that has potential.
So we can go ahead and
drop the in ports here and
the way it works is it's
a function that returns this path,
and that's what that looks like.
With that, I think I had a right,
just make sure one more time,
that one's not easy to read.
Import yeah, so
I mistakenly did that the other
way it is a function that
does the import here and
imports the specific path just like that.
So again, we can see user experience
wise as far as development goes.
You probably wouldn't really
know the difference, but
this optimization can help a lot when
it comes to your apps going forward.